Grandfather of Assassins
Medium humanoid (any race), any non-good
Armor Class 19 (+2 studded leather armor)
Hit Points 195 (26d8 + 78)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
11 (+0) 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +12, Wis +10, Int +10
Skills Acrobatics +12, Deception +9, Perception +17, Stealth +19
Damage Resistances poison
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 27
Languages Thieves' cant plus any four languages
Challenge 21 (30,000 XP)
Assassinate. During its first turn, the grandfather of assassins has
advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a
turn. Any hit the grandfather of assassins scores against a surprised
creature is a critical hit.
Cunning Action. On each of its turns, the grandfather of assassins
can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
Elusive. No attack roll has advantage on the grandfather of
assassins as long as it isn't incapacitated.
Evasion. If the grandfather of assassins is subjected to an effect that
allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage,
the grandfather of assassins instead takes no damage if it succeeds
on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.
Sneak Attack. (1/Turn)The grandfather of assassins deals an extra
35 (10d6) damage when the grandfather of assassins hits a target
with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the grandfather of assassins
that isn't incapacitated and the grandfather of assassins doesn't have
disadvantage on the attack roll.
Stroke of Luck. (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest) If the
grandfather of assassins misses a target within range, it can turn the
miss into a hit. Alternatively, if the grandfather of assassins fails an
ability check, it can treat the d20 roll as a 20.
Actions
Multiattack. The grandfather of assassins makes two melee attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) piercing damage and the target must make a DC
19 Constitution saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) poison damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, range
80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (1d8 + 7) piercing damage and the
target must make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw, taking 42
(12d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Legendary Actions
The grandfather of assassins can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be
used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. The
grandfather of assassins regains spent legendary actions at the start
of its turn.
Shift. The grandfather of assassins moves up to half its speed
without provoking opportunity attacks.
Vanish. The grandfather of assassins performs a Hide action. It can
move up to half its speed before or after this action.
Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The grandfather of assassins makes a
melee or ranged weapon attack.
Reactions
Uncanny Dodge. The grandfather of assassins halves the damage
that it takes from an attack that hits it. The grandfather of assassins
must be able to see the attacker.